Title: TOEIC PRACTICE 3

----

Date: 2018-08-07

----

Intro: This is the 3rd TOEIC Practice for my student

----

Text: 

In the conversations, the talks, and the readings, sometimes you will see a question like this:
リスニーングとリーディングでこのような質問をみるかもしれないです。

"What can be said about the baseball game?"

It means that you cannot directly find the answer in the listening or reading.
リスニングやリーディングで直接見つけれない情報の関係です。
You have to think about what else was said or written and guess from there.
他に言っていることといいかたに考えたほうがいいですね。

This was a common problem for me living in Japan in the early days. Especially, I could never understand when someone was saying no.

Some languages in the world imply many things without saying them.
有る国の言葉でよく色々言わなくて、含意するのが多い
These languages are called high context.
「High context」と言います。
This may include Japanese. You know, in Japan we might say "ato de ikimasu". 
日本語はその一つですね。例えば、「あとで行きます」と言われたら、
But I have some questions if I hear this. Who is going later? Where are they going later? When is later?
たくさんの質問があります。誰が行く？何処に行く？あとではいつですか？
So many things are not said. But if you heard this conversation, you probably know many of the answers, because they are implied.
言わないことが多いけど、この会話を聞いたら、多分含意するから、分かるね。

Some languages say things very directly and give lots of information.
他の国の言葉は直接に言う。
These languages are called low context.
「High context」と言います。
Maybe in the example above they would say "I am going to the supermarket in the afternoon."
例えば、上の例なら「私は午後にスーパーに行きます」と言います。
Germany is said to be a very low context language.
ドイツ語はLow contextと言われます。

What about English? Do you think it is low context or high context?
じゃ、英語はどうですか？Low context? High context?
Many say that it is in the middle.
真ん中とよく言われます。
So, it means that English is more direct that Japanese, but less direct than some other languages. British English and American English are a little different in this, too, and so is English spoken by people from big cities compared to those from small towns.
日本語より直接に言うけど、ドイツ語より含意することが多いです。実はアメリカの英語とイギリスの英語はこれで時々違います。田舎の英語と都会の英語もちょっと違います。

Still, even Japanese is more direct than English about some things.
しかし、あるときに日本語は英語より直接に言います。
Here are some examples of what Japanese is more direct about.
例えば(日本語で翻訳しません。）
1. Age - for example, Japanese often uses terms like "okusama", "obasan" and "obaasan" or like "otouto" and "oniisan". We don't have words for these kinds of feelings like "middle-aged woman", "older woman" and "old woman". We can explain them, but we don't have simple words for them.
2. Toilet issues - we don't say "go to the toilet" in English. We say "go to the bathroom." We are less direct about this and many things related to the toilet - but we tell people when we are going, so that is more direct.
3. We often don't ask to receive things, we ask to borrow them. If I say "can I borrow some paper?" I will not return it to you, but many people prefer not to say "can I have some paper?"
4. Feelings about the weather and such. In Japanese, on a hot day, many people are often saying "Atsui! Atsui! Atsui!" so often. But we don't talk about it much. We all know it's hot, so we don't have to say it.
5. Bad physical traits. People talk less about baldness and weight in English. We might say other things that make us understand these things, though.
And more.

So when you listen to a conversation in English or read a passage, maybe you have to understand what they are not saying, too.
じゃ、英語の会話とかを見たら、言わないことも分からないとです。
Here are some examples.
下の例をみてください。

Woman: Do you know Joan?
Man: No. Who's that?
Woman: My friend. She is single now. I thought you two might get along.
Man: Oh really? Is she cute?
Woman: Well... she has a nice personality. She's very funny.
Man: I see. Well, I'll think about it.

Is Joan cute?
じゃ、Joanさんは可愛い？
No. 
いや。
The woman did not say yes or no. In English this is common. If the answer is bad, we might change the subject.
可愛ですかの質問に答えなかった。よくない答えになるときによく英語で話を変わります。

How about in this e-mail?
じゃ、このEメールはいかが？

Dear Jim,

Thank you for giving us a tour of your factory yesterday.
We can see that your company is very dedicated and your workers are hard-working.
We will contact you again if there is a chance to work together.

Sincerely,

Donald


Will Donald contact Jim again?
DonaldさんはJimにまた連絡すると思いますか？
No. I don't think so.
しないと思います。
Why? If he wants to contact him, I think he will say a day, not "if". I also think he will sound more excited. Maybe he would say "We hope to work with you" or something like this.
なんで？連絡したいと思ったら、多分「if」を言うよりちゃんと日にちを言います。あとはもっとやりたいように書くと思います。例えば、「I hope to work with you」


So, to know the meaning, we have to think about what wasn't said - not only what was said.
And we cannot think it is the same as in Japanese. It is different.
じゃ、時々書いていないことを考えたほうがいいですね。そして、何を書かないのは日本語と英語で違います。

What questions will you see on the TOEIC that make you do this?
Questions like this:
その関係でTOEICで下の質問をみるかもしれない。

1. What can be said about ...?
2. Where most likely was ...?
3. Who most likely was ...?
4. What is implied about ...?
5. Based on this passage, it can be inferred that ...? 

All of these are questions that ask about what is not said or what is not written.

Can you try these sample questions?
じゃ、下の質問に頑張って、答えを送ってください。


Questions 7–11 are based on the following passage.

(1) Without a doubt, one of the most interesting mythological characters is the Greek god Prometheus. A complex character with an undying love for the human beings he created, Prometheus embodies a rich combination of often contradictory characteristics, including loyalty and defiance, trickery and trustworthiness. He shows resilience and resolve in his actions yet weakness in his fondness for humankind.

(2) To reward Prometheus (whose name means "forethought" ) and his brother Epimetheus ("afterthought") for helping him defeat the Titans, Zeus, the great ruler of Olympian gods, gave the brothers the task of creating mortals to populate the land around Mount Olympus. Prometheus asked Epimetheus to give the creatures their various characteristics, such as cunning, swiftness, and flight. By the time he got to man, however, there was nothing left to give. So Prometheus decided to make man in his image: he stood man upright like the gods and became the benefactor and protector of mankind.

(3) Though Prometheus was particularly fond of his creation, Zeus didn't care for mankind and didn't want men to have the divine gift of knowledge. But Prometheus took pity on mortal men and gave them knowledge of the arts and sciences, including the healing arts and agriculture.

(4) Always seeking the best for his creation, one day Prometheus conspired to trick Zeus to give the best meat of an ox to men instead of Zeus.He cut up the ox and hid the bones in layers of fat; then he hid the meat and innards inside the hide. When Prometheus presented the piles to Zeus, Zeus chose the pile that looked like fat and meat. He was enraged to find that it was nothing but bones.

(5) To punish Prometheus for his deceit and his fondness for humans, Zeus forbade men fire—a symbol of creative power, life force, and divine knowledge. But Prometheus would not let his children be denied this greatest of gifts. He took a hollow reed, stole fire from Mount Olympus, and gave it to men. With this divine power, creativity, ingenuity, and culture flourished in the land of mortals.

(6) Again, Zeus punished man for Prometheus's transgression, this time by sending the first woman, Pandora, to Earth. Pandora brought with her a "gift" from Zeus: a jar filled with evils of every kind. Prometheus knew Zeus to be vengeful and warned Epimetheus not to accept any gifts from Zeus, but Epimetheus was too taken with Pandora's beauty and allowed her to stay. Eventually Pandora opened the jar she'd been forbidden to open, releasing all manner of evils, including Treachery, Sorrow, Villainy, Misfortune, and Plague. At the bottom of the jar was Hope, but Pandora closed the lid before Hope could escape.

(7) Prometheus drew Zeus's greatest wrath when he refused to tell Zeus which of Zeus's sons would kill him and take over the throne. Believing he could torture Prometheus into revealing the secret, Zeus bound his flesh and ate his liver, which would regenerate each night. But Prometheus refused to reveal his knowledge of the future to Zeus and maintained his silence. Eventually, Prometheus was released by Heracles (also known as Hercules), the last mortal son of Zeus and the strongest of the mortals. Soon  afterwards, Prometheus received immortality from a dying centaur, to take his place forever among the great gods of Olympus.

 

7. The main idea of the first paragraph is that Prometheus

> a. is disrespectful of authority.

> b. is the mythological creator of humans.

> c. has many admirable characteristics.

> d. is a fascinating character because of his complexity.

>  

8. Based on this passage, it can be inferred that Zeus disliked humans because

> a. Prometheus spent too much time with them.

> b. Prometheus cared for humans more than he did for Zeus.

> c. humans could not be trusted.

> d. humans did not respect Zeus.

 

9. Zeus becomes angry at Prometheus for all of the following EXCEPT

> a. creating man.

> b. giving man fire.

> c. being excessively fond of humans.

> d. refusing to reveal which of his sons would kill him.

 

10. Based on this passage, the relationship between Prometheus and humans can best be described as that of

> a. parent and child.

> b. close friends.

> c. master and servants.

> d. reluctant allies.

 

11. The word transgression as used in the first sentence of paragraph 6 means

> a. villainy.

> b. trespass.

> c. irregularity.

> d. disobedience.

----

Disqus: 1