Title: TOEIC PRACTICE 2

----

Date: 2018-07-30

----

Intro: これは第二番目のTOEIC Practiceになります。

----

Text: 

There are many different parts of the listening test.
All parts, however, have some question. Each question has multiple possible answers.
Selecting the correct answer isn't only about understanding what was said, it is also about understanding what the possible answers mean.
リスニングテストで言うことをわかるだけではなくて、それぞれの質問と答えもわかったほうがいいですね。

There are multiple ways that they try to trick you.
In this mini-lesson, we will focus on distractors.
テストでいくつの方法で騙されるようにします。今回は気晴らしの言葉を書きます。

Distractors often sound similar or the same as another word.
気晴らしの言葉は関係ある言葉に聞こえるけど、関係ないですね。

Let's look at some examples.
Please try this exercise. Which word in each series of words does not fit?
これらの言葉のセットの中にどれの言葉が合わないですか？
1. Blue        Green        Read        Yellow        Orange
2. Win         One          Winning      Winner       Wins
3. Two         Three        For           Five          Six
4. Loose       Loser         Lost          Beaten        Failed

**Answers**
> 1) "read". It sounds like "red", but it is not the same word.
> 2) "one". It sounds like "won", but it is not the same word.
> 3) "for". It sounds like "four", but it is not the same word.
> 4) "loose". It sounds like "lose", but it is not the same word. looseはゆるいという意味でね

Maybe it is easy to see the difference, but when you are listening, it might be difficult because many of them have exactly the same sound.
見たら、分かりやすいかもしれないけど、聴くときにまたく同じ発音のときもありますね。

So, how do you know when you are listening?じゃ、聴くときに、関係ある言葉か気晴らしの言葉か、どうやって区別ができますか？

Let's look at the examples above again.もう一度上の例を考えましょう。
Red is a color. It is also an adjective - always. If you want to talk about a color, you need to use the adjective form.
Redは色です。いつも形容詞です。色の話をしたかったら、英語でいつも形容詞を使います。
Read is a verb - a past-tense verb. 
Readは動詞です。過去形の動詞です。

A usual English sentence is made like this
だいたいの英語の文章はこれですね。

subject - verb - object ・ 主語 - 動詞 - 目的語
(Of course there are other versions, but this is most common).
OR
(adjective) subject - (adverb) verb - (adjective) - object ・（形容詞）主語 - （副詞）動詞 - （形容詞） - 目的語
OR
subject - be-verb - adjective (for example: I am cold.)   主語 - be 動詞 - 目的語

So, if you hear this sentence
じゃこの文章で
*The man read the newspaper.*
Subject 主語 = the man
Verb 動詞 = read
Object 目的語 = the newspaper

And if you hear this sentence
*The man has a red apple.*
Subject 主語 = the man
Verb 動詞  = has
(Adjective 形容詞) = red
Object 目的語 = apple


How about loose and lose? じゃ、looseとloseは？
Loose is an adjective 形容詞.
Lose is a past-tense verb 過去形の動詞.

Imagine this listening.
じゃ、このリスニングのことを考えましょう
A man and a woman are talking about a baseball game.

Here is an example question
1. How was the baseball game.
A. His team is loose.
B. His team won.
C. It was a tie.

If you look at the answers, you can see that A is wrong.
答えを見たら、Aが間違えているとわかるね。
Why?  なぜか？
His team is loose 
Subject - be-verb ........ after a be-verb is an adjective.
 主語 - be 動詞 がありましたので、その後の言葉は絶対 目的語ですね。

Win and lose are verbs.
でもゲームの関係のwinとloseは形容詞じゃなくて、動詞ですね。だから、この文章にもう決まっています。Winとloseの話にならない。
So, this is a different word. It sounds the same, but it's not the same word.
So, you have to then choose between B and C.
じゃ、答えはBかCですね。

Often conversations will use some meaningless words also to confuse you. For example, the baseball conversation might be like this.
よく会話で関係ないことばを使います。下のを見てください

Woman: What are you watching?
Man: A baseball game.
Woman: How is it?
Man: OK. I thought the cubs were strong, but they lost by one run.
今回のoneはwonに聞こえるかもしれないけど、関係ない。

Be careful.

Actually, I find that often if you think that you hear one of the words from the question or answer in the conversation, it is just a distractor.
よく僕が気づいたのは質問と答えに出る言葉は会話にも出たら、気晴らしの言葉の可能性が高いですね。

This also is good to think about for the question and response part of the test. Not all of them are applicable for our lesson today, but many are.
Please try to practice with the following video and send me your answers.
Question and Responseのところにも気晴らしの言葉をよく使いますので、ちょっと練習しましょう。
このビデオと下に書いている質問をやって見てください。
ジェイソンに答えを出してください。
気晴らしの言葉の問題だけではないけど、そのような問題もあります。
5つだけを書いたけど、それよりしたかったら、もちろんどうぞ。


<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/w3evBVmbwT4?start=206" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

10. Why are you so tired.
A. The tire needs air.
B. We have to wear a coat and tie at work.
C. I didn't sleep well last night.

11. When did you start here?
A. Where can I get a new printer?
B. You can use the elevator on the left.
C. Monday was my first day of work.

12. Is that a new tie you're wearing?
A. There aren't any more.
B. I need to change my coat.
C. It is. I got it as a present.

13. Can we take a break?
A. I think Bob broke it.
B. Thanks. I'm full.
C. Good idea. I'm tired, too.

14. I haven't felt good all day.
A. Yes. He's very good.
B. I don't feel it, either.
C. You should see a doctor.

There are many more - you can practice if you want, but I only wrote the answers for these 5 questions.

----

Disqus: 1